There are a bunch of plugins
that will take a whole
bunch of layers and
make styles for you, right?
So for instance, Styler is the one I use,
and you can go ahead and
you can just hit Install and
then it's instantly available.
And then you can use it, so
that's kinda your cue to go and
install it right now while I talk.
You can install Styler, and what it will
do is that it'll take a bunch of layers
and it will just automatically create
color styles for you out of those layers.
Then you're like, neat.
What are they called, right?
Well, that's where, so
you're not out of the woods yet.
It names them after whatever
the name of the layer was.
So, if you select all of these,
and you go in, and go to plugins,
and you go to Styler, and
you go Generate Styles.
You can see if I go now in here, I've
got a bunch of colors called circle and
whatever number Figma gave it.
That's not what I wanted,
I could go hand by hand and rename them.
And the one thing you'll see is
that if I give it a slash like
a directory structure,
It will create folders that I
can organize stuff with, but
still I don't wanna do this, so I'm gonna
delete all these cuz these are gross.
I'll select Shift and just get all of
them, delete them, I don't want them.
What I wanna do is I want to rename
all of these in bulk, right?
So there's a bunch of ways
that I can do that, but
there's one kind of built into
Figma that's super useful.
I can select a bunch of these,
let's take all the brand ones,
and I can hit Command+R,
you'll see I get this bulk rename, right?
The one thing I have to check is
depending on which order you select,
they're slightly different.
So circle five is the lightest one,
that's the one I want to be 100.
And then it means circle 1
is the one I want to be 500,
so I'll show you how to do this.
You select a bunch, you hit Command+R.
And you can do a regex in
here if you love regex and
that's the way that you wanna live.
I don't need to in this case,
so I'm gonna say Brand, so
this would rename them all Brand.
Still not great, there are a bunch
of variables that I can use here.
And so if I do $n,
you'll see that it is giving me a number,
right, in incremental order.
Capital N will give me
in descending order.
Two n's will actually just pad
it with a zero, so that way,
you don't have to figure all that out,
so on and so forth, right?
What I want is kinda the opposite.
I wanna say that the one that
is circle 5 which should be 100,
and the one that is circle
1 should be 500, so
I'll just put two Os at the end myself,
and then that slash in there.
And I can check, and
you could see that I got it wrong.
So there's a bunch of
ways you can handle this,
you can do a replace, I'm just
gonna undo and will hit Brand, $n.
And now all of these are renamed
the correct way, right?
So again, as you saw the input field above
that, there's pattern matching, right?
You can literally just type in a string,
you can put in a regex, and
then you can use that value, then you
can do everything after the value.
There's a whole bunch of nuanced
things that it's really hard to come
up with a fictitious use case for
why I would wanna do that, so
you have a bunch of ways.
The other way you could
theoretically do this is,
I could grab a bunch of these,
I could rename them all 200, right?
And then, I could theoretically match
it and then fill in the other piece.
I like the initial way that I did it,
so you can go through and
rename all of them one at a time.
So here we'll call this one,
was this Information,
was that Success, or was it Danger?
Danger/ Warning/,
might grab that real quick and
not type it again.
Still like not tedious, but
ideally you're doing this once.
It's kinda like setting up Webpack,
that's gonna get me in trouble.
And then we'll call this grayscale.
Awesome, and so
now I can select all of these,
I can go back into Styler and
I can say Generate Styles.
And now you can see,
I didn't rename that one properly.
At least for the other ones, I've got my
entire color palette that I can now use
throughout the rest of
my day as we go through,
I do need to undo that last one though.
All right, and go ahead, and
we'll just try it one more time.
Generate Styles, and now I have, oop,
I got an extra sticky note in there,
you can just delete them.
And now I have all the colors is that
I need, so you can create a scale.
The other thing is super interesting is,
neat,
you've just moved the problem forward,
right?
Yes, now you're a designer, which could
be you or it could be somebody else, or
it could be you trying to just figure
out all the colors in a design,
has a bunch of well named styles.
There's another one called CSS Gen, which
again, you probably just don't wanna use
wholesale, but you could theoretically
take the styles from a Figma file, and
this is another plugin.
And you can go in here and we'll go to CSS
Gen and we'll say, I want CSS variables,
you can choose your color mode that makes
you happiest, you can choose your casing.
You hit Generate, and it will give you a
bunch of variables that you can just use,
and so
you're not porting them over one by one.
So now you can set up the colors and
again get the accessibility right.
A lot of times what I'll do for
both typography and
colors is I'll make a bunch of just
random buttons and divs and headings, and
do even just a very loose mock
up of what I think I'm gonna do,
get the line spacing right,
and stuff along those lines.
Then I will delete all those things,
I'm not gonna actually use them,
but that sets up my styles,
now I have them ready to go in both my
CSS as well as in my design, right?
You might not just use this as
a class name, you could choose,
if you're using SAS,
you might make a mixin.
But it at least gives you
the starting piece here for
all the styles that you might
choose to use in your application.